this video was made possible by
brilliant learn something new every day
for 20% off by being one of the first
200 to sign up at brilliance org /h ai
welcome to Sesame Street or whatever
today's lesson is that if you don't got
good grammar don't be writing legal
documentation because these require
specificially exhibit a title 26 chapter
7 subchapter 3 section 3 subsection F of
the American state of Maine's laws
subchapter 3 mainly has to do with the
overtime work rules in the state
basically any hours worked over 40 a
week have to be paid at one point five
times normal hourly pay but subsection F
contains exemptions to this rule now
let's play spot the ambiguity the
overtime provision of this section does
not apply to the canning processing
preserving freezing drying marketing
storing packing for shipment or
distribution of agricultural produce
mean fish products for perishable goods
so wait wait wait
is overtime exempted when packing for
either shipment or distribution or when
packing for shipment or the distribution
of if it's the second than anyone
distributing these things for example
truck drivers would not be granted any
overtime this sentence is just begging
for a good old-fashioned American
lawsuit now lexical nuance is
tremendously important as single
characters can have tremendous
consequences
here's approximately three examples in
the UK public information on
incorporated companies is published by
Companies House a government agency in
2009 Companies House as they do publish
that Taylor and Sons was going bankrupt
only problem Taylor & Sons was a
thriving engineering firm that existed
for close to 150 years and employed over
250 people Taylor & Son on the other
hand a completely different company was
really going bankrupt it was just a one
letter misspelling all of Taylor & Sons
customers though saw that they were
closing up shop and stopped doing
business with them which caused them to
actually go bankrupt the owner of course
sued the UK government and reached an
undisclosed settlement of probably
millions of dollars in 2016 the lesson
learned have more sons because when is a
family business it's not child labor its
chores example DOS in 1962 NASA launched
Mariner 1 a spacecraft that was going to
go say hi
at the time most NASA computer code was
written out by hand and then once
complete transcribed into a computer
using punch cards only problem human son
and one of the meat bags forgot to enter
this tiny over bar when transcribing the
spacecraft's guidance system now I'm no
doctor but the internet tells me that
the lack of that over bar caused the
spacecraft to overcorrect for velocity
variations which led to the spacecraft
going wildly off course which led to
NASA giving the Soviets a Big W in the
space race now NASA is all about having
the public embraces technology but a few
minutes after launch this spacecraft was
on course to give some Americans too
close of an embrace the guy in charge of
the big red button pressed the big red
button to make the spacecraft explode if
you're wondering this meant that it
didn't get to space the cost of this
transcription mistake 150 million
dollars that's more than the average
American makes in a year example number
C back in the early days of the United
States the government figured out that
it needed money in order to do stuff so
it started to impose tariffs on imports
after the Civil War this problem of
needing money to do stuff became even
worse because of war debts of course
therefore they updated this document
outlining American import tariffs one
edit was in a section of exemptions one
of which was fruit plants tropical and
semi-tropical for the purpose of
propagation or cultivation meaning fruit
could enter the u.s. tax-free this was a
mistake
it was meant to say fruit plants as in
the plants on which fruit grows the US
government tried to enforce the intended
meaning of the sentence to which fruit
importers responded with some lawsuits
and in the end the US government lost
and was forced to refund adjusted for
inflation about 40 million dollars in
tariffs which accounted for almost 0.7
percent of the entire national budget
the lesson learned
categories are fruit as musical
instruments in order to get lower import
tariffs but back to Maine's modern day
comma snafu Oakhurst dairy is a company
based in Portland Maine that produces
and distributes milk which based off
testing I can confirm is a perishable
code therefore the company looked at the
sentence and figured they didn't have to
pay overtime while the drivers looked at
the very same sentence and figured they
did deserve overtime so five drivers
sued the company for their either
rightfully or unrightfully deserved
overtime pay the drivers and company
went to trial and the court said no
drivers didn't deserve overtime pay
because look at the sentence it very
clearly lays out an exemption the
drivers appealed the case went to an
appeals court and then the judge dropped
this thick 29 page ruling analyzing the
single sentence and eloquently saying to
the drivers fair point you win as a
result Oakhurst dairy had to pay about
five million dollars in overtime fees
they did win a partial victory though as
soon after Maine dropped a few of these
bad boys into their laws semicolons the
good news is that unlike the grammatical
heathens and the rest of the
english-speaking world most American
states now require the Oxford comma in
government documents to cut down on
ambiguity now learning that using only
one comma in a list of three is a
primitive relic of a time when we threw
buckets of poop out the window is easy
learning multivariable calculus though
is tougher but for that there's
brilliant brilliant has mastered the art
of teaching complex topics through
active learning and problem solving one
of my favorite features of theirs is the
daily problem series where they publish
several math science and engineering
problems every day to teach you
something new and then if you want to
learn more each is attached to one of
their courses head to brilliant org
slash h AI to sign up for free and
access some courses and then by being
one of the first 200 teams that link
you'll also get 20% off their annual
premium subscription to learn anything
from vector calculus to gravitational
physics